#Typeset me with  "pod2man -s 8  --release="centos-errata.py 0.3" --center="Spacewalk Utilities" centos-errata.pod" or similar...
=pod

=head1 NAME

centos-errata.py

=head1 SYNOPSIS

centos-errata.py [options] [filename]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

centos-errata.py is a tool to "scrape" data from the emails to the
C<centos-announce> mailing list and populate Spacewalk with errata
information. Optionally, it can download additional details from
RedHat. 

The program accepts the following options:

=over 4

=item B<--version>    

show program's version number and exit

=item B<-h>, B<--help>            

show this help message and exit

=item B<-s> F<spacewalk.example.com>, --server=F<spacewalk.example.com>

Spacewalk server hostname

=item B<-l> F<LOGIN>, B<--login>=F<LOGIN>

Spacewalk Login

=item B<--password>=F<password>

Spacewalk password (cleartext). If you don't specify this option or
the corresponding B<CONFIGURATION FILE> option the tool will prompt
you interactively.

=item B<--max-errata>=F<N>

Maximum number of errata to process at once. Only relevant to format 'mail-archive.com'

=item B<-c> F</path/to/file.cfg>, B<--config>=F</path/to/file.cfg>

Read the specified config file in addition to the the default F<centos-errata.cfg>

=item B<-f FORMAT>, B<--format>=F<digest|archive|mail-archive.com>

Select input format for tool. Default is digest. Valid options are F<digest>, F<archive>, F<mail-archive.com>

=item B<--scrape-rhn>        

Connect to the RedHat Network site and attempt to download errata information

=item B<--show-config>

Do not connect to the Spacewalk server, just print configuration information

=item B<-t>, B<--test>            

Do not connect to the Spacewalk server, just process the input file and
print errata information. Will also print configuration information

=item B<--centos-version>=F<CENTOS_VERSION>

The centos version (e.g. '5' for Centos 5.3)

=item B<--search-strategies>=F<[dir]>,F<[spacewalk]>

Set place(s) to look for package NVREA. Allowable search strategies
"spacewalk" (look in spacewalk) and "dir" (look in the package directories). Example: "dir,spacewalk" or just "dir"


=back

For each architecture specified in the B<CONFIGURATION FILE>, you will
get the following options:

=over 4

=item B<--I<ARCH>-channel>=F<Channel-Name>[,F<Channel-Name>,..]

The updates channel for arch I<ARCH>

=item B<--I<ARCH>-packagedir>=F</path/to/directory>

The package directory for arch I<ARCH>

=item B<--I<ARCH>-ft-channel>=F<FastTrack-Channel-Name>[,F<FastTrack-Channel-Name>,..]

The FastTrack updates channel for arch I<ARCH>

=item B<--I<ARCH>-ft-packagedir>=F</path/to/directory>

The FastTrack package directory for arch I<ARCH>

=back

Each option has a conterpart in the B<CONFIGURATION FILE> and usually
you will want to configure most things there. 

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

The basic structure of the configuration file is a C<centos errata>
section for config options that affect the whole tool, a C<spacewalk> section for server details and an
architecture-specific section for config options that affect a
particular architecture.

Valid architectures are: i386, x86_64, ia64, ppc, alpha, sparc, s390 and s390(x)


The C<centos errata> section contains the following options:

=over 4

=item B<version>

Major release of CentOS you are targeted. E.g. "5" for "CentOS 5.4"

=item B<release>

Minor release you are targeting. E.g. "4" for "CentOS 5.4"

=item B<scrape_rhn>

If True, RHN is used to populate errata with details. Default: False

=item B<search_strategies>

This option controls how the script looks for packages. It is a comma
separated list of values. Valid values are F<spacewalk> and F<dir>. 

F<spacewalk> searches spacewalk

F<dir> searches the package directories which must be defined for all
architectures if this option is used. 

=item B<max_errata>

Maximum number of errata to process at once. Only relevant to format
C<mail-archive.com>

=back

You can interpolate variables from the C<centos errata> section
elsewhere in the file. See the B<Example Configuration File> for this technique

The C<spacewalk> section contains the following options:

=over 4

=item B<server>

Spacewalk server (FQDN) 

=item B<login>

Spacewalk username

=item B<password>

Password to access the server. If you don't specify this option, the
tool will prompt you interactively.

=back

Each architecture specific section contains the following options:

=over 4


=item B<package_dir>

All files for regular updates mentioned in the centos-announce postings
should reside in this directory. reposyncing the "updates" repo of
the centos release should do the trick. 

=item B<fasttrack_package_dir>

if specified, this directory should contain the package files for the
FastTrack updates. These are distinguished on the centos-announce
postings by the subject line tag "FASTTRACK". This config option will
be ignored unless B<fasttrack_channel> is set.

=item B<channel>

Channel which contains the update packages. Update errata will be
published to this channel so you should push the updatge packages to
this channel BEFORE you run centos-errata.py.

You can have multiple channel names here, just separate them by commas

=item B<fasttrack_channel>

If specified, channel which contains the FastTrack packages. 
"Fasttrack" errata will be published to this channel if it is
enabled. Otherwise "fasttrack" errata will be ignored. 

You can have multiple channel names here, just separate them by commas

=back

=head2 Example Configuration File

An "all bells and whistles" config file that pushes errata and
fasttrack errata to i386 and x86_64 CentOS releases. 

    [centos errata] #Required to identify applicable messages on the
    centos-announce mailing list version=5 #Useful for interpolation
    below, not used by tool itself release=7 #If true the script will
    attempt to use the Redhat Network to populate the errata
    description scrape_rhn=False #Set order of places to look for
    package NVREA. The only allowable search #strategy is just "dir".
    #The "spacewalk" and "satellite" strategies #are deprecated due to
    CentOS not using md5sum signatures anymore search_strategies=dir
    #Maximum number of errata to process at once. Only relevant to
    format 'mail-archive.com' #max_errata

    [spacewalk] server=spacewalk.bioss.sari.ac.uk login=dnutter
    #Location of content on spacewalk server. Only used for search
    strategy of satellitedir satellite_dir=/var/satellite #The tool
    will prompt you if you don't specify a password
    #password=reallysecret

    #Per-architecture configurations. Errata will be published for all
    #architectures listed in sections below.  See the script for list
    #of valid arches.

    #[i386] All files for regular updates mentioned in the
    #centos-announce postings should reside in this
    #directory. reposyncing the "updates" repo of your fave centos
    #release should do the trick.
    #package_dir=/usr/ghost/RH_install/CentOS/%(version)s.%(release)s/updates/i386/RPMS/
    #All files for FastTrack updates should reside here.
    #fasttrack_package_dir=/usr/ghost/RH_install/CentOS/%(version)s.%(release)s/fasttrack/i386/RPMS/
    #Update errata will be published to this channel so you should
    #push the packages in the directory above to this channel BEFORE
    #you run centos-errata.py.
    #channel=centos-i386-updates-%(version)s.%(release)s Fasttrack
    #errata will be published to this channel
    #fasttrack_channel=centos-i386-fasttrack-%(version)s.%(release)s

    [x86_64]
    package_dir=/usr/ghost/RH_install/CentOS/%(version)s.%(release)s/updates/x86_64/RPMS/
    #package_dir=/tmp/testrpms
    channel=centos-x86_64-updates-%(version)s.%(release)s
    #fasttrack_package_dir=/usr/ghost/RH_install/CentOS/%(version)s.%(release)s/fasttrack/x86_64/RPMS/
    #fasttrack_channel=centos-x86_64-fasttrack-%(version)s.%(release)s


#TODO: change channel naming convention to match the spacewalk-common-channels script (Mohammed Arafa)


=head1 KNOWN ISSUES

=head2 Multiple CentOS releases

Currently the only way to support multiple centos releases
(e.g. CentOS 5 and CentOS 6) is to have separate config files for
each. 

So to push CentOS 5 you might do:

  centos-errata.py /tmp/centos-digest-message.txt

And CentOS 6:

  centos-errata.py -c centos-6.cfg /tmp/centos-digest-message.txt

=head2 Input formats

MBOX format is not supported for input. It should be

Errata are very basic. If you want full errata, then buying Satellite
is your best bet

=head2 Error checking

The tool does not check to see if the C<update_channel> exists before
attempting to create and publish an errata. 

=head2 Automatic package pushing

Ideally the tool should try and push missing packages to the named
C<update_channel>, if they exist on disk.

Unfortunately the XMLRPC api does not seem to support an
C<pushPackage> function (unless I'm being blind) so adding this
function would require importing the necessary code from C<rhnpush>

=head2 Reliant on consistent email from centos-announce

Since the format of these emails has been inferred rather than being
documented this script may not be able to parse some errata messages

Minor formatting changes to the emails on centos-announce can prevent
the script from recognizing messages as errata, or doing the right
thing. Usually, editing the source message is sufficient to correct
the problem and it is rare.

=head2 Errata Updates 

Existing errata are not updated, instead you must delete and recreate
them.

=head2 Errata dates

Limitations in the spacewalk API for creating errata mean that
creation and update dates of errata are the time they were created in
spacewalk, not when the errata were announced by CentOS. As a
convenience, this tool will place the announcement date in the "notes"
field of the errata.

=head2 Search strategies

Only the "dir" search strategy works as the other two ("satellitedir"
and "spacewalk") rely on knowing the md5sum of the package
beforehand. 

Unfortunately CentOS have stopped sending the md5sum with each
announce email due to md5 collision issues. Now they send a sha256sum,
which is no good for our purposes!

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<rhn-tool(1)>

=head1 AUTHOR

 David Nutter (davidn@bioss.ac.uk),
 Raal Goff (raal goff@zettaserve.com) and
 Jeremy Davis (jddavis@godaddy.com) 
 
 Based on original code by Lars Jonsson (ljonsson@redhat.com).

 
=cut